Update grammar.adoc with guidance on inanimate users (#495)
redhat-documentation/supplementary-style-guide: supplementary_style_guide/style_guidelines/grammar.adoc

=== Principle 5: Error recovery, verification, and troubleshooting
Recognize that people make mistakes and need to verify that they have completed a task. Be sure to include troubleshooting, error recovery, and verification steps.

[[users]]
== Users

> In most cases, the word "user" refers to a person or a person's user account, and therefore would be considered animate. We should use animate personal pronouns such as "who".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most cases, the word "user" refers to a person or a person's user account, and therefore would be considered animate. In these cases, use animate personal pronouns such as "who".
```

> However, in certain technical cases, we sometimes refer to "users" that are not persons but instead user accounts or more abstract concepts. For example, Linux users such as root and guest do not relate to any person. Applications and services might run as specific Linux users with no person controlling them. SELinux users such as `user_u` or `sysadm_u` are identifiers of one or multiple Linux users for access control purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, in certain technical cases, these users are not persons but instead user accounts or more abstract concepts. For example, Linux users such as root and guest do not relate to any person. Applications and services might run as specific Linux users with no person controlling them. SELinux users such as `user_u` or `sysadm_u` are identifiers of one or multiple Linux users for access control purposes.
```

In these specific cases, and only if you cannot write around it, you can refer to these inanimate users with inanimate personal pronouns such as "that".

> .Examples

Reviewer: Usually we show the incorrect example(s) first, and then show the correct example(s) last. Can you reorder?

* Animate user
+

> image:images/no.png[yes] A _user who_ creates a file is the owner of that file.

Reviewer: I'm confused by this example. Shouldn't the wrong example show a "that" instead of a "who" for animate users?

Author: I think we can remove this example.
```suggestion
```

+
image:images/yes.png[yes] _Users who_ want to install their own packages...
+
image:images/no.png[no] Experienced _users that_ can configure their own systems...

* Inanimate user
+
image:images/yes.png[yes] Specify a _user that_ is allowed to perform the requested action.
+

> image:images/yes.png[yes] A Linux user has the restrictions of the _SELinux user_ to _which_ it is assigned.

Reviewer: Per the ISG, we are allowed to end sentences in prepositions to avoid awkward phrasing like this. So I'd recommend to update this and the below examples like so:

```suggestion
image:images/no.png[no] A Linux user has the restrictions of the _SELinux user who_ it is assigned to.

image:images/yes.png[yes] A Linux user has the restrictions of the _SELinux user that_ it is assigned to.
```

=== Principle 5: Error recovery, verification, and troubleshooting
Recognize that people make mistakes and need to verify that they have completed a task. Be sure to include troubleshooting, error recovery, and verification steps.

[[users]]
== Users

> In most cases, the word "user" refers to a person or a person's user account, and therefore would be considered animate. In these cases, use animate personal pronouns such as "who".

Reviewer 2: I see "person's user account" mentioned in the animate and inanimate section, so maybe "person's user account" needs to be dropped from the animate paragraph as this account is really a system account (inanimate).

Reviewer 3: +1 Had the same thought.

Author: Good point, changed it to system account below.

> In most cases, the word "user" refers to a person or a person's user account, and therefore would be considered animate. In these cases, use animate personal pronouns such as "who".

Author: Sorry, I'm not sure I understand what you mean here.

Do you mean that we sometimes refer to "users" as those who perform the tasks (i.e. reader)?

And Linux and SELinux users and similar would be role references?

> In most cases, the word "user" refers to a person or a person's user account, and therefore would be considered animate. In these cases, use animate personal pronouns such as "who".

Reviewer 3: I was trying to suggest some direct guidelines that would help writers make a decision. I was thinking something on the lines of:
"Task performers" -> Use animate
"Role references"-> Use inanimate

> In most cases, the word "user" refers to a person or a person's user account, and therefore would be considered animate. In these cases, use animate personal pronouns such as "who".

Author: I've thought about this, but I think this is too simple a recommendation. We can refer to personal users even when they are not task performers. In fact, we should typically refer to task performers as "you" and write directly to them.

Also, we should primarily write around role references instead of using the inanimate pronouns.

So I think the current recommendation is more accurate:

> In these specific cases, and only if you cannot write around it, you can refer to these inanimate users with inanimate personal pronouns such as "that".

> In most cases, the word "user" refers to a person or a person's user account, and therefore would be considered animate. In these cases, use animate personal pronouns such as "who".

Reviewer 3: sounds good!

> However, in certain technical cases, these users are not persons but instead user accounts or more abstract concepts. For example, Linux users such as root and guest do not relate to any person. Applications and services might run as specific Linux users with no person controlling them. SELinux users such as `user_u` or `sysadm_u` are identifiers of one or multiple Linux users for access control purposes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, in certain technical cases, these users are not persons but instead user accounts or more abstract concepts. For example, Linux users such as `root` and `guest` do not relate to any person. Applications and services might run as specific Linux users with no person controlling them. SELinux users such as `user_u` or `sysadm_u` are identifiers of one or multiple Linux users for access control purposes.
```

Author: ```suggestion
However, in certain technical cases, these users are not persons but instead system accounts or more abstract concepts. For example, Linux users such as root and guest do not relate to any person. Applications and services might run as specific Linux users with no person controlling them. SELinux users such as `user_u` or `sysadm_u` are identifiers of one or multiple Linux users for access control purposes.
```

> However, in certain technical cases, these users are not persons but instead user accounts or more abstract concepts. For example, Linux users such as root and guest do not relate to any person. Applications and services might run as specific Linux users with no person controlling them. SELinux users such as `user_u` or `sysadm_u` are identifiers of one or multiple Linux users for access control purposes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In certain technical cases, these users are not persons but instead user accounts or more abstract concepts. For example, Linux root and guest users do not relate to any person. Applications and services might run as specific Linux users with no person controlling them. SELinux users such as `user_u` or `sysadm_u` are identifiers of one or multiple Linux users for access control purposes. In these specific cases, refer to these inanimate users with inanimate personal pronouns such as "that".
```

> However, in certain technical cases, these users are not persons but instead user accounts or more abstract concepts. For example, Linux users such as root and guest do not relate to any person. Applications and services might run as specific Linux users with no person controlling them. SELinux users such as `user_u` or `sysadm_u` are identifiers of one or multiple Linux users for access control purposes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, in certain technical cases, these users are not persons but instead user accounts or more abstract concepts (inanimate). For example, Linux users such as root and guest do not relate to any person. Applications and services might run as specific Linux users with no person controlling them. SELinux users such as `user_u` or `sysadm_u` are identifiers of one or multiple Linux users for access control purposes.
```

> However, in certain technical cases, these users are not persons but instead user accounts or more abstract concepts. For example, Linux users such as `root` and `guest` do not relate to any person. Applications and services might run as specific Linux users with no person controlling them. SELinux users such as `user_u` or `sysadm_u` are identifiers of one or multiple Linux users for access control purposes.

Author: ```suggestion
In certain technical cases, these users are not persons but instead user accounts or more abstract concepts (inanimate). For example, Linux `root` and `guest` users do not relate to any person. Applications and services might run as specific Linux users with no person controlling them. SELinux users such as `user_u` or `sysadm_u` are identifiers of one or multiple Linux users for access control purposes. In these specific cases, refer to these inanimate users with inanimate personal pronouns such as "that".
```

> In certain technical cases, these users are not persons but instead user accounts or more abstract concepts (inanimate). For example, Linux `root` and `guest` users do not relate to any person. Applications and services might run as specific Linux users with no person controlling them. SELinux users such as `user_u` or `sysadm_u` are identifiers of one or multiple Linux users for access control purposes. In these specific cases, refer to these inanimate users with inanimate personal pronouns such as "that".

Reviewer 2: I don't see the "system account" update here.

Author: ```suggestion
In certain technical cases, these users are not persons but instead system accounts or more abstract concepts (inanimate). For example, Linux `root` and `guest` users do not relate to any person. Applications and services might run as specific Linux users with no person controlling them. SELinux users such as `user_u` or `sysadm_u` are identifiers of one or multiple Linux users for access control purposes. In these specific cases, refer to these inanimate users with inanimate personal pronouns such as "that".
```

In these specific cases, and only if you cannot write around it, you can refer to these inanimate users with inanimate personal pronouns such as "that".

.Examples
* Animate user
+

> image:images/no.png[no] Experienced _users that_ can configure their own systems...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
image:images/no.png[no] Experienced _users that_ can configure their own systems....
```

Close ellipses trailing sentence with a period.

Same suggestion for the next example.

+

> image:images/yes.png[yes] _Users who_ want to install their own packages...

Author: ```suggestion
image:images/yes.png[yes] _Users who_ want to install their own packages....
```

> image:images/no.png[no] Experienced _users that_ can configure their own systems....

Reviewer: Per ISG if the ellipses is at the end of the sentence, you don't add a period after it

```suggestion
image:images/no.png[no] Experienced _users that_ can configure their own systems...
```

> image:images/yes.png[yes] _Users who_ want to install their own packages....

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image:images/yes.png[yes] _Users who_ want to install their own packages...
```

* Inanimate user
+
image:images/no.png[no] A Linux user has the restrictions of the _SELinux user who_ it is assigned to.
+
image:images/no.png[no] A Linux user has the restrictions of the _SELinux user_ to _whom_ it is assigned.
+
image:images/yes.png[yes] Specify a _user that_ is allowed to perform the requested action.
+

> image:images/yes.png[yes] A Linux user has the restrictions of the _SELinux user that_ it is assigned to.

Reviewer 3: `... it is assigned to.`  Here `it` is inanimate and I believe it is referring to `A Linux user`. But IIUC, `Linux user` is still animate here, in which case we might have to say ..`they are assigned to.` instead. Feel free to correct me here.

Author: No, the Linux user here does not refer to a person who uses linux, but to the Linux user account, like `guest`.

Reviewer 3: so we may want to emphasize on that too since it is overlooked currently.
e.g.
image:images/no.png[no] A _Linux user_ has the restrictions of the _SELinux user who it is_ assigned to.

Author: Hm, I tried to emphasize only the parts of speech to which the pronouns point (and the pronouns themselves). I think emphasizing this user would make it less clear, because no pronoun refers to it.

Reviewer 3: > `... it is assigned to.` Here `it` is inanimate and I believe it is referring to `A Linux user`. But IIUC, `Linux user` is still animate here, in which case we might have to say ..`they are assigned to.` instead. Feel free to correct me here.

I thought `it` refers to `Linux user`
